+++
title = '''The Growing Sisterhood of Organists: AGO Task Force for Gender Equity/Society for Women Organists'''
path = '''/future/sessions/the-growing-sisterhood-of-organists-ago-task-force-for-gender-equity-society-for-women-organists/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>The Growing Sisterhood of Organists: AGO Task Force for Gender Equity/Society for Women Organists</h1>
<h2>Date/Time</h2>
<p>Tuesday, July 02, 2024<br>
12:00 PM – 01:00 PM (Pacific Time)</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
(not implemented yet)
<h2>Description</h2>
Panel participants from AGO and SWO discuss advocacy efforts supporting women musicians.

All are welcome to join us for this panel discussion about the remarkable work of two organizations that both had their roots in the pandemic, and now have hundreds of followers. Come and find out what we have accomplished since spring of 2020, learn about our future goals, and get a quick rundown of some of our favorite works by women composers. In addition, we will address the problem of accessibility of music by women, we will hear from SWO members about the progress on their Adjustable Bench Campaign, and end with a Q&A: What are your concerns? And how can we help?
<h2>Speakers</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Speaker.link of Speaker(data=SpeakerData(presenter_at=[], speaker_biography='', speaker_display_name='Eileen Hunt', speaker_first_name='Eileen', speaker_last_name='Hunt', speaker_stub='A88B02B7-F9BB-42E4-870E-07FE16FCF834', speaker_title='', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li><li><bound method Speaker.link of Speaker(data=SpeakerData(presenter_at=['DC4485CD-CBD2-4F77-AECA-5D42C56C1769', '9BCC748D-9AC1-4283-B19F-8EACAE725515'], speaker_biography='Anne Marsden Thomas has enjoyed a long career as concert organist, organ teacher, church organist and writer/editor.  She is based in London, UK, and has directed the music at St Giles Cripplegate Church, City of London since 1982.  In 1992 she established the St Giles International Organ School, which taught hundreds of students before it transferred to the Royal College of Organists (RCO) Academy.  She founded, and directed until 2016, the week-long RCO Summer Course for Organists, which annually provides individual and group tuition for up to 80 students from across the world.  She teaches at The Royal Academy of Music, and privately.  She has recorded several CDs and toured internationally as a recitalist, teacher and presenter.  She has authored/co-authored/compiled and edited 24 books for organists.  In 2019 she co-founded the Society of Women Organists, and she has continued as co-chair of the Society. Her awards include an MBE, the RCO Medal and the Fellowship of the Royal School of Church Music.', speaker_display_name='Anne Marsden Thomas', speaker_first_name='Anne Marsden', speaker_last_name='Thomas', speaker_stub='A6F578D0-F79E-44BD-8F09-0BDFC29D0391', speaker_title='', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li><li><bound method Speaker.link of Speaker(data=SpeakerData(presenter_at=[], speaker_biography='', speaker_display_name='Nancy Cooper', speaker_first_name='Nancy', speaker_last_name='Cooper', speaker_stub='62B45B05-B7ED-406F-80F4-15E6CF49C7A2', speaker_title='', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li><li><bound method Speaker.link of Speaker(data=SpeakerData(presenter_at=[], speaker_biography='', speaker_display_name='Michelle Kardos', speaker_first_name='Michelle', speaker_last_name='Kardos', speaker_stub='2FA87179-45AD-418C-B12F-437626FE5BD1', speaker_title='', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li><li><bound method Speaker.link of Speaker(data=SpeakerData(presenter_at=[], speaker_biography='', speaker_display_name='Leslie Wolf Robb', speaker_first_name='Leslie Wolf', speaker_last_name='Robb', speaker_stub='2E2FE900-1640-4878-8072-C502CDC0C8B4', speaker_title='', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

