+++
title = '''Choral Musicianship: Reading for Singers; Analysis for Conductors'''
path = '''/future/sessions/choral-musicianship-reading-for-singers-analysis-for-conductors/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Choral Musicianship: Reading for Singers; Analysis for Conductors</h1>
<h2>Date/Time</h2>
<p>Sunday, June 30, 2024<br>
12:00 PM – 01:00 PM (Pacific Time)</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
(not implemented yet)
<h2>Description</h2>
Applying methods of musicianship and analysis to the choral rehearsal

This interest session will be led from the triple perspective of the clinician's experience as composer, choral conductor, and long-time teacher of Musicianship and Form and Analysis.   The session is designed to help choral conductors, teachers, and choral singers in both church and schools at all levels, from teachers at elementary school  through college and university,  and from undergraduate students through working professionals,  learn music with greater thoroughness and speed, and to conduct and sing with greater expression and meaning.  Special attention will be paid to developing a method of score analysis to aid conductors and singers in arriving at a deeper understanding of the formal architecture and content and their relation to text of the choral music they are performing, through practical application of tools of analysis and sight-singing, and applying those tools in the choral rehearsal.  The session will also give guidance to choral musicians interested in designing a life-long program of study in the areas of musicianship and analysis.
<h2>Speakers</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Speaker.link of Speaker(data=SpeakerData(presenter_at=[], speaker_biography="David Conte has received commissions from Chanticleer; the San Francisco, Dayton, Oakland, and Stockton Symphonies; the Raymond Brock Commission from the American Choral Directors Association; and for conventions of the AGO (2004, 2012, 2015, 2024). He has composed solo pieces for organists Ken Cowan, Michael Farris, David Higgs, and Alan Morrison. Since 1985 he has been Professor of Composition and since 2014 Chair of the Composition Department at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. Conte is the composer of over 150 works published by  E.C. Schirmer Music Company. He was one of the last students of Nadia Boulanger, studying with her from 1975-78 in Paris and Fontainebleau on a Fulbright Scholarship; a Ralph Vaughan Williams Fellow, and an Aspen Music Festival Conducting Fellow. He earned a B.M. from Bowling Green State University where he studied with Wallace DePue, and an M.F.A. and D.M.A. from Cornell University where he studied with Karel Husa.  In 1982 Conte worked with Aaron Copland preparing a study of the composer’s manuscript sketches. He has taught at Cornell, Colgate University, the American Conservatory in Fontainebleau, France, and Interlochen. He has served on the board of the American Composer's Forum, as Composer in Residence for Cappella SF, and on the composition faculties of EAMA in Paris, and Choral Chameleon Institute in New York. His opera The Gift of the Magi has received over 40 productions in the U.S, Canada, Europe, and Russia. In 2005 he co-composed the score for the documentary Ballets Russes shown at the Sundance Film Festival; in 2007 he composed the score for the PBS American Masters documentary Orozco: Man of Fire. In 2016 he won the National Association of Teachers of Singing Art Song Composition Award for his cycle American Death Ballads. He is an active clinician of Theory and Musicianship Pedagogy, and has led workshops for national conventions of the AGO, ACDA, and for many congregations, conservatories, and universities.", speaker_display_name='David Conte', speaker_first_name='David', speaker_last_name='Conte', speaker_stub='0A54714E-E909-4AAC-992D-342BBE38CA04', speaker_title='', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 19)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

