+++
title = '''Renée Anne Louprette'''
path = '''/future/speakers/renée-anne-louprette/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Renée Anne Louprette</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Renée Anne Louprette is a 2022 U.S.-Romanian Fulbright Scholar who maintains an international career as organ recitalist, conductor, teacher, and collaborative artist. She is Assistant Professor of Music and College Organist at Bard College where she is artistic director of the Bard Baroque Ensemble and has directed the organ program at Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers University since 2013. In New York City she served as Associate Director of Music at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Trinity Wall Street, and the Unitarian Church of All Souls. She has performed solo recitals throughout Europe and North America and appeared as concerto soloist with the Queensland Symphony Orchestra in Australia, the Auburn Symphony Orchestra in Seattle, and The Orchestra Now in New York. Additional collaborations have included the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra, Piffaro, American Brass Quintet, Da Capo Chamber Ensemble, and the Los Angeles Dance Project. She has released solo recordings of the music of J. S. Bach and 20th-century French organ masterworks to critical acclaim.</p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='An introduction to the fascinating historic pipe organs of Transylvania, Romania\r\n\r\nThis workshop, co-presented by concert organist Renée Anne Louprette and organ builder Árpád Magyar, will present a summary of Ms. Louprette’s 2022 Fulbright research project surveying historic pipe organs throughout Romania. Ms. Louprette will share findings from her project focusing on the culturally diverse region of Transylvania and the fascinating instruments from the Baroque period through the 19th century that have been rescued and masterfully restored by artisans of the C.O.T. organ building firm and training school in Hărman, Brașov. Mr. Magyar, co-owner and manager of the C.O.T. firm that celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2023, will highlight aspects of the firm’s remarkable development and the challenges and rewards of recent restoration projects. The workshop will feature audio and video recordings as well as detailed photography captured by Ms. Louprette as part of her exploration of this precious cultural heritage of Eastern Europe.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='Transylvanian Organ Landscape: Historic Organ Restoration in Romania', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='7C61F96C-53AC-462B-AD71-AFE58FB38D26', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['CEA35588-5468-45C7-B348-349FD867A6B8'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

