+++
title = '''Árpád Magyar'''
path = '''/future/speakers/árpád-magyar/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Árpád Magyar</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Since 2014, Árpád Magyar has been Co-Owner and Manager of Construcții de Orgi și Tâmplărie (C.O.T. SRL – Organ Manufacturer and Joinery) in Hărman, Brașov, situated in the heart of the Transylvanian region of Romania. Since its establishment in 2003 by Swiss organ builder Ferdinand Stemmer, the C.O.T. firm has executed the most complex pipe organ restorations and construction of new organs in Romania. The company operates both domestically and abroad and is highly regarded for its distinguished approach to historic restoration techniques. The firm has also operated as a training school for Romanian organ builders and carpentry artisans since its origin. Mr. Mágyár was educated at Universitatea Transilvania din Brașov and apprenticed with Rieger Orgelbau in Austria and Martin Pasi Organ Builders in Roy, Washington, among others.</p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='An introduction to the fascinating historic pipe organs of Transylvania, Romania\r\n\r\nThis workshop, co-presented by concert organist Renée Anne Louprette and organ builder Árpád Magyar, will present a summary of Ms. Louprette’s 2022 Fulbright research project surveying historic pipe organs throughout Romania. Ms. Louprette will share findings from her project focusing on the culturally diverse region of Transylvania and the fascinating instruments from the Baroque period through the 19th century that have been rescued and masterfully restored by artisans of the C.O.T. organ building firm and training school in Hărman, Brașov. Mr. Magyar, co-owner and manager of the C.O.T. firm that celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2023, will highlight aspects of the firm’s remarkable development and the challenges and rewards of recent restoration projects. The workshop will feature audio and video recordings as well as detailed photography captured by Ms. Louprette as part of her exploration of this precious cultural heritage of Eastern Europe.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='Transylvanian Organ Landscape: Historic Organ Restoration in Romania', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='7C61F96C-53AC-462B-AD71-AFE58FB38D26', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['CEA35588-5468-45C7-B348-349FD867A6B8'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

