+++
title = '''Anne Laver'''
path = '''/future/speakers/anne-laver/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Anne Laver</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Described by Fanfare magazine as a “complete musician, totally adept and utterly stylish in everything she plays,” Anne Laver maintains an active career as concert organist, scholar, and pedagogue. She has performed in Europe, Scandinavia, Africa and across the United States and has been a featured recitalist at conventions of the American Guild of Organists, the Organ Historical Society, the Westfield Center for Historical Keyboard Studies, and the Göteborg International Organ Academy (Sweden). In 2010, she was awarded second prize in the AGO National Young Artist Competition in Organ Performance (NYACOP). Anne’s debut recording, “Reflections of Light” (Loft, 2019) received favorable reviews and has been aired on nationally syndicated radio programs, including WXXI FM’s With Heart and Voice and American Public Media’s Pipedreams. 

An advocate for new music and diversifying the organ repertoire, Anne has worked with composer Natalie Draper to offer programs for composers who want to write for the organ, and has given world premieres of works by Draper, Eric Heumann, Jordan Alexander Key, and Ivan Božičević. As a scholar, Anne’s research interests focus on organ music at the nineteenth and twentieth century world’s fairs. Her articles have been published in the Journal for the Society of American Music, Vox Humana, and The American Organist. 

In her appointment as Associate Professor of Organ and University Organist at Syracuse University’s Setnor School of Music, she helps educate the next generation of organists. Anne also has taught and led outreach programs at the Eastman School of Music, most recently serving as Visiting Professor of Organ from 2020-2022. 

Anne is grateful for her teachers, Jacqueline Cratin Smith, Mark Steinbach, Jacques van Oortmerssen, Hans Davidsson, William Porter, and David Higgs.

For more information, please visit annelaver.com</p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='The 1915 Panama-Pacific International Exposition and the Golden Age of the American Pipe Organ \r\n\r\nFrom February to December 1915, San Francisco welcomed 18 million visitors to the highly successful Panama-Pacific International Exposition (PPIE). Situated on 600 acres of waterfront in what is today’s marina district, this impressive world’s fair commemorating the completion of the Panama Canal offered visitors a myriad of exhibits relating to industry, technology, and the arts. One of the exhibits was a new organ built by the Austin Organ Company the exposition’s Festival Hall. The organ was used for daily concerts by the day’s leading organists, including the British virtuoso Edwin H. Lemare, who played 100 concerts over the course of six weeks. \r\n\r\nIn this period of history, the pipe organ stood at the intersection of industry, technology, culture, and commerce, and it epitomized the spirit of progress that was so intrinsic to U.S. world’s fairs. Organ series were an important feature of the music programs at the expositions in Chicago, Buffalo, and St. Louis, and San Francisco’s event followed those models. These events introduced the organ to a general audience and paved the way for a golden age of civic organ building and culture in this country. \r\n\r\nDrawing on archival research in UCLA Berkeley’s Bancroft Library and publications by Austin Opus 500 expert Justin Kielty, this presentation will share the fascinating story of the PPIE organ series while placing it in the larger context of world’s fair scholarship and the history of the pipe organ in the U.S.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='Organ Concerts at San Francisco’s World’s Fair', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='8D189028-7DAD-4AD0-8A6B-50C0FC3D0A6D', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['DF5790FB-1F67-4F18-B30A-CFA3337CD1E8'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

