+++
title = '''Marilyn Perkins Biery'''
path = '''/future/speakers/marilyn-perkins-biery/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Marilyn Perkins Biery</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Marilyn Perkins Biery is an organist, conductor, composer, hymn writer, and keyboard acquisitions editor for Augsburg Fortress of Minneapolis, Minnesota.  Her hymn texts, choral and organ compositions are published by GIA, MorningStar, Augsburg Fortress, and Concordia. She has served as interim music director for several downtown Detroit churches, including Fort Street Presbyterian Church. Before moving to Michigan with her husband, James Biery, in 2010, Marilyn was Associate Director of Music at the Cathedral of St. Paul in St. Paul, Minnesota. The Bierys also lived in Connecticut, where Marilyn was Director of Music Ministries at First Church of Christ (Center Church) in downtown Hartford. Marilyn holds Bachelor and Master of Music degrees in organ performance from Northwestern University—she entered the doctoral program in choral conducting at the University of Connecticut before they moved to Minnesota, and she finished her Doctor of Musical Arts degree in organ performance from the University of Minnesota. Her organ performances have been broadcast numerous times over Pipedreams. She and Jim live in Grosse Pointe Farms—Jim is Minister of Music and Organist at Grosse Pointe Memorial Church. Marilyn is currently serving as the Bridge Director of Music Ministry at Kirk in the Hills in Bloomfield Hills, MI. Their daughter, Laura, is a litigation attorney at Honigman in Detroit.</p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description="Ten new chorale-based transcriptions in the style of Bach's Schübler chorales \r\n\r\nWhat if Bach had looked deeper into his cantata movements and prepared a second volume of his Schübler Chorales for organ? Bach's original volume was published toward the end of his life (1747-1748), so perhaps he would have considered it if he had lived longer. Marilyn Biery looked through more than 200 of Bach's cantatas, scanning for movements with a cantus firmus. She transcribed ten chorale-based Bach cantata movements in the same style as the Schübler Chorales, all but one in trio form, and with a similar symmetrical structure to Bach's original collection. James Biery provided registration suggestions using specification of the Klais organ in Grosse Pointe Farms, MI as a starting point. Jim also recorded many of the movements, available to hear in this workshop and on the Augsburg website. Useful in worship or recital, each piece in the Augsburg book is accompanied by an explanation of its context in the original cantata and the chorale tune upon which it is based. They also make excellent pieces for organ instruction, especially for students who are not yet ready to learn an entire Bach trio sonata or for organists who love playing the trios but want something shorter for worship services. Several of the tunes in this volume are tunes in current use, including Jesu, meine Freude, Lobe den Herren, Valet will ich dir geben and Christ lag in Todesbanden.", session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='"New" Organ Chorales in the Schübler Tradition', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='261B39D1-A6D4-479C-A08F-6FE6757D44E4', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['C839CBE1-3242-4730-BE5B-18BE78FE2B50'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

