+++
title = '''Anne Marsden Thomas'''
path = '''/future/speakers/anne-marsden-thomas/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Anne Marsden Thomas</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Anne Marsden Thomas has enjoyed a long career as concert organist, organ teacher, church organist and writer/editor.  She is based in London, UK, and has directed the music at St Giles Cripplegate Church, City of London since 1982.  In 1992 she established the St Giles International Organ School, which taught hundreds of students before it transferred to the Royal College of Organists (RCO) Academy.  She founded, and directed until 2016, the week-long RCO Summer Course for Organists, which annually provides individual and group tuition for up to 80 students from across the world.  She teaches at The Royal Academy of Music, and privately.  She has recorded several CDs and toured internationally as a recitalist, teacher and presenter.  She has authored/co-authored/compiled and edited 24 books for organists.  In 2019 she co-founded the Society of Women Organists, and she has continued as co-chair of the Society. Her awards include an MBE, the RCO Medal and the Fellowship of the Royal School of Church Music.</p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='Women’s organ music from eight centuries, with tales of the pressures the composers overcame.\r\n\r\nWomen composers are at last beginning to emerge from centuries of neglect. With publications of their works slowly appearing, it is now possible for all organists to include music by women in concerts, services, and teaching.  Oxford University Press’s new publication, the Oxford Book of Organ Music by Women Composers, includes music from the 16th century to the present day, with pieces suitable for intermediate to advanced organists.   Anne Marsden Thomas will illustrate many of the pieces and tell the composers’ stories: the educational, domestic, social, and professional pressures they overcame and their struggles to be published.   Finally, she will highlight further opportunities for discovering organ music by women.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='Organ Music by Women Composers', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='DC4485CD-CBD2-4F77-AECA-5D42C56C1769', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['A6F578D0-F79E-44BD-8F09-0BDFC29D0391'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='Identifying successful practice and performance strategies\r\n\r\nWhy do so many organists find it hard to perform brilliantly?  Whether the performance is spoiled by wayward limbs, habitual or new errors, self-doubt or distracting mind-games, the cause is probably the same: poorly chosen repertoire coupled with imperfect practice methods.  The workshop addresses all these performance problems in turn, showing how effective training of a well-chosen piece inspires the player, builds confidence and concentration and results in a reliable and brilliant performance.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 7, 1, 13, 0), session_name='How to perform brilliantly', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 7, 1, 12, 0), session_stub='9BCC748D-9AC1-4283-B19F-8EACAE725515', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['A6F578D0-F79E-44BD-8F09-0BDFC29D0391'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

