+++
title = '''Kimberly Marshall'''
path = '''/future/speakers/kimberly-marshall/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Kimberly Marshall</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Kimberly Marshall is known worldwide for her compelling programs and presentations of organ music. She currently holds the Patricia and Leonard Goldman Endowed Professorship in Organ at Arizona State University; from 2020-22, she held the Hedda Andersson Visiting Professorship at the Malmö Academy of Music. In 2022, she was awarded the Medal of the Royal College of Organists, their highest honor, in recognition of her distinguished achievement in organ performance and scholarship.

Kimberly has performed and presented her research at 13 national conventions of the AGO, and she is honored to present the final concert for the San Francisco Convention. She is known for her creative programming, her eclectic repertoire and her scholarship. Her recording Celebrating Notre-Dame, released in 2021, includes music spanning five centuries, played on the world’s largest meantone organ in Göteborg, Sweden. Engagements in 2023-4 include recitals for the Oaxaca International Organ Festival, teaching residencies at Yale University and the Tokyo University of the Arts, and performances at the Orgelpark in Amsterdam, St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, and on the new symphonic organ at Göteborg Concert Hall.

In addition to her research into historical performance practice, she has investigated the use of sound vibrations in a restorative practice and developed organ sound meditations which she has presented at many venues in the US and Europe. A current focus of Kimberly’s scholarship is the creation of an online Encyclopedia of the Organ, which she hopes to launch in 2025.

See http://www.kimberlymarshall.com/ or visit https://www.facebook.com/KimberlyMarshall.organist.</p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='How to create enthralling programs of organ music\r\n\r\nIn 1739, Johannes Mattheson published a detailed description of the "fantastic style" in which he prioritized contrast, also emphasizing the intent "to please, to overtake and to astonish." \r\n\r\nThese qualities of pleasing and astonishing the listener can be considered the goals of any compelling organ recital. A first step is to feature the instrument in a variety of textures, from single stops rendered with delicacy to full ensembles played with virtuosic bravura.  Demonstrating the organ\'s capabilities is an important aspect of programming.\r\n\r\nAnother vital consideration is the variety of style and genre in the program. To achieve this heterogeneity, there is much material available since the organ has a vast repertoire, the largest of any modern musical instrument. Sharing arcane gems of early or contemporary music can help to attract and hold listeners\' attention, by introducing them to something novel. The lesser-known can provide a larger historical or cultural context for more frequently played works so that they are heard in new ways. \r\n\r\nThis workshop will explore creative principles of programming with specific examples designed to help organists as they design concerts to both please and astonish their audiences. Kimberly Marshall will use this opportunity to describe how she formulated her program for the final concert of the convention, on the Murray Harris and Fisk organs at Stanford\'s Memorial Church.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='"To please and to astonish:" Creative programming', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='CF79AA12-6437-4613-A4B2-D804FC0708CB', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['B4005F63-3275-4C21-A476-FB5DE091209D'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

