+++
title = '''Jacob Hofeling'''
path = '''/future/speakers/jacob-hofeling/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Jacob Hofeling</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Originally from Arizona, Dr. Hofeling has a bachelor of music degree from Arizona State University in Organ Performance, where he studied under Kimberly Marshall. Hofeling holds a master of music degree and a doctorate of musical arts in organ from the University of Kansas where he studied under James Higdon and Michael Bauer. In addition to his studies in organ, Hofeling has a master of music degree in Music Theory from the University of Kansas focusing on the complex rhythmic structures in the organ music of Jean-Louis Florentz. Hofeling studied abroad at the Hochschule für Künste in Bremen, Germany under Professor Edoardo Bellotti. Hofeling holds a position as Director of Music and Liturgy at St. Mark Catholic Church in Independence, Missouri, and was recently the interim professor of organ at Washburn University in Topeka, Kansas. As a solo recitalist, he has recently performed concerts in Kansas City Missouri, Salt Lake City Utah, Gold Canyon Arizona, and several cities in Western Kansas. In Salt Lake City, Hofeling performed on the historic Tabernacle Organ on Temple Square where he is a guest recitalist. In addition, he performs frequently at the Community of Christ Temple in Independence, Missouri, where he holds the title of staff organist. The KC Metropolis wrote that Hofeling’s playing, “had a wonderful variety of registers and colors and displayed a secure sense of control.” Hofeling is also a member of the organ committee for the National Federation of Music Clubs, tasked with selecting the organ repertoire for the next four years of Federation competitions. As a continuo player he has had the honor of performing with the Kansas City Symphony in December 2018. Hofeling was a semi-finalist in the Mikhael Tariverdiev International Organ Competition in Kaliningrad Russia, and he was awarded second prize in the Fort Wayne, IN National Organ Playing Competition. His performances have been heard on the radio at KBAQ in Phoenix, Arizona and KPR in Kansas. </p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='Learn about using your iPad to store your sheet music, turn pages "hands and feet free" and more.\r\n\r\nWith ForScore, storing and reading sheet music has never been easier. This application for iOS allows users to store hundreds of thousands of scores, easily search and sort your music, and perform the music effectively in a live setting. Newer versions of iPads will even allow you to turn the page with simply a nod of the head. This workshop will focus on the process of taking your hard copy of a score, scanning each page and importing it into ForScore. From there, the music is given a label and appropriate tags. That music can then be put into a setlist and arranged in order with other scores. ForScore\'s features include a built in metronome, audio recording capability, and shortcuts that can take you from any score to a specific page in the same score or a different score with the push of a button. ForScore allows you to mark, highlight, or write finger numbers or pedal markings into the score with a touch of your finger, and these markings can be easily erased. If you have an iPad, and you would like to incorporate it more into your music, this workshop will help you take those crucial steps into digitizing your library. With ForScore, you can carry your entire sheet music library with you at all times, and also backup those files so they will never be lost.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 7, 1, 13, 0), session_name='From iPad to Organ - Tech Tips', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 7, 1, 12, 0), session_stub='17FA3401-3859-4428-8840-4E2B1906CBAF', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['64005181-5119-4929-9F90-F85426DC356D'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='Discover technology to store music, easily turn pages, and more on a tablet or iPad. \r\n\r\nThe rapidly changing world of technology can be an incredible asset to organists. You may have seen an increase in other musicians using tablets or other devices to read scores and mark scores and quickly turn pages. These tools can make playing the organ more efficient and can drastically reduce the amount of sheet music you carry with you on a regular basis. This workshop class will focus on the applications available for scanning and storing sheet music on a digital device, the applications available to view and perform music in real time, and devices that can help you turn pages with ease. With applications like ForScore and MobileSheets, you can store tens of thousands of scores, organize your digital libraries, and even highlight and mark your scores. You can easily search your array of collected scores by whatever criteria you choose, such as genre, key, composer, or any other user-defined tags. Beside sheet music reading, there are applications and devices for a variety of other uses, including metronomes, practice journals, audio and video recording, and virtual meeting software for teaching or taking lessons remotely. We will also examine note writing software, digital audio workstations for recording and editing music, and composition applications that can be used anywhere. We will broadly look at the available landscape of technology that helps organists focus on what matters most; making music effectively.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='Getting Organized with Technology', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='29EFBAE1-2001-47C6-A2A7-481F75525456', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['64005181-5119-4929-9F90-F85426DC356D'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

