+++
title = '''Renee Chiu Gastelum'''
path = '''/future/speakers/renee-chiu-gastelum/'''
template = "future.html"
+++

<h1>Renee Chiu Gastelum</h1>
<h2>Biography</h2>
<p>Chinese Hispanic organist and Silicon Valley native Renee Chiu enjoys a blossoming career as a performer, educator, and speaker. She became a Colleague of the AGO at age 19 and an Associate at age 22. Ms. Chiu graduated Cum Laude with a Bachelor’s Degree of Organ Performance from Brigham Young University, which she earned under the tutelage of Drs. Don Cook and Neil Harmon. She is currently a Master’s candidate there. 

Ms. Chiu volunteered in community outreach projects in Taiwan from 2019-2020, where she became fluent in Mandarin. Upon returning to the United States, she taught Mandarin and then established her own private piano/organ studio. In 2023, she created, organized, and directed two summer music camps: one for refugees in Utah, and one for orphans in Taiwan. An interview about her projects will be used in English-learning materials published by the State Department. 

Ms. Chiu was also selected to present on her music outreach projects at the Canada-based organization Curriculum Development Collective’s Community Engagement Conference, as well as the Utah Music Teacher Association 2023 Conference. She currently resides in Provo, Utah. For her full bio, please visit www.reneechiumusic.com/about.</p>
<h2>Sessions</h2>
<ul><li><bound method Session.link of Session(data=SessionData(session_description='The organ acts as a storyteller for 19th and 20th century Chinese composers\r\n\r\nNapoleon Bonaparte said, “Let China sleep, for when she wakes, she will shake the world.” On the other side of the world lies a country full of unheard stories. These stories have the power to shake the world, and there’s no better instrument to bring those stories across the Pacific than the organ. \r\n\r\nThe organ will serve as a link between Eastern and Western traditions. Even though the body of Chinese music written for the organ is quite small, the instrument’s diverse array of sounds enables us to explore Chinese music written for orchestra, keyboard, and traditional Chinese instruments. \r\n\r\nRather than focusing on the history of the pipe organ in China, this session will focus on 19th and 20th century Chinese composers and their stories. Attendees will learn about these composers and the forces that shaped their pieces, and after each piece is introduced, Ms. Chiu will perform it. \r\n\r\nAttendees will not only walk away from this session with an increased knowledge of Chinese music and culture, but also an increased desire to diversify their repertoire. We will delve into how YOU can expand the organ literature. Both the stories you’ll hear and your personal stories have the power to shake the world.', session_end_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 13, 0), session_name='From Bamboo to Bourdon: Stories from China', session_start_date_time=datetime.datetime(2024, 6, 30, 12, 0), session_stub='52ABBA22-26AE-4884-B07C-EF4F2E2F8CF3', speaker_category=['Organist'], speakers=['645E8D0F-BC56-4EA4-BDF9-153106B1BDB6'], timezone_name='Pacific Time', updated_date=datetime.date(2023, 9, 4)), updated=False, deleted=False)></li>

